An introduction to Counterfactual Regret Minimization 
---

players reach equilibrium play by tracking regrets for past plays, making future plays proportional to positive regrets 

this is a simple and intuative technique (atleast this is what is written in the paper)

this paper shows an example of a classic game of Rock Paper and Scissors 

Section 2 --
  rock paper and scissors is also called Roshambo (facts)
  what does it mean to play such a game optimally or perfectly 
  maximizing wins minus losses depends on how the opponent plays 

  some termenologies --
    we define normal form game as a tuple (N,A,u) where:
      N = {1,...,n} is a finite set of n players 
      S_i is a finite set of actions for player i
      A = S_1 * ... * S_n is the set of all possible combinations of simultaneous actions of all players 
      u is a function mapping each action profile to a vector of utilities for rach player

      A normal-form of game is commanly known as "one short game" since every player only makes one move

          R     P     S
      R   0,0  -1,1   1,-1
      P   1,-1  0,0  -1,1
      S  -1,1   1,-1  0,0

      row player is player1 and column player is player2

      a player plays with pure strategy of the player chooses a single action with probability 1. a player playes a mixed stratergies if the player has at least two actions that are played with positive probabs

      A best response strategy for players i is one that, given all other player stratefies maximizes expected utility for player i. 

      When every player is playing with a best response strategy to each of the other players strategies, the combination of strategies is called NASH EQUILIBRIUM. No player can expect to improve play by changing strategy alone. 

      Nash Equilibrium -- is a set of strategies, one for each player, such that no player has incentive to change his or her strategy given what the other player is doing 

      Battle of SEXES -- 
            M     G
        M  2,1   0,0
        G  0,0   1,2

        gary would like to go to a football game and minica wants to see a movie 
        they both prefer going together to the same activity, yet each feels less rewarded for choosing the other's preference.

        the utility is always (1,2) or (2,1) so MM and GG are two pure nash equilibria profiles. 
          
        however there is a mixed nash equilibria as well 
        -- game matrix 

                  heads       tails
        heads     1,-1        -1,1
        tails     -1,1        1,-1 

        there is no pure nash equilibria so there has to exist a mixed strategy nash equilibria.

Section 2.3 -- 
  if we play RPS for money and the start of the game we keep 1 dollar each and whoever wins takes both the dollars and the utility for the player who losses is -1 

  instead of doing rock and lossing the prev play we would have done paper or scissors which whould have given us 0 or 1.

  we regret not playing paper but we regret not playing scissors more !
  
  how to calculate regret --
    u(paper, paper) - u(rock, paper) = 0-(-1) = 1
    u(scissors, paper) - u(rock, paper) = 1-(-1) = 2



        
















Jar --
  imperfect recall abstractions 
